docs/spec.md, before:

# Open Model Interface Spec

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

## Changelog

| Date       | Version | Notes                                        |
|------------|---------|----------------------------------------------|
| 2021-07-26 | 1.0     | Initial version of OMI Spec                  |
| 2022-TBD   | 1.1     | Updated OMI Spec to include new requirements |

## Requirements

To qualify as an Open Model Interface (OMI) compliant container, a container must pass the following tests.

### OCI compliant

The container image MUST be an [OCI](https://opencontainers.org/) compliant container image, for example it MAY be generated by [`docker build`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/) or [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko).

### Origin tags

The container MUST be tagged (e.g. `tag` in `registry/org/image:tag`) with a unique ID which corresponds to the ID of the model in the upstream model management system.
For example, the container image tag MAY be set to the [MLflow Run ID](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/model-registry.html) which generated the model.

This is to enable provenance tracking from a given model which generated certain inference results to metadata about how the model was trained.
The metadata referred to by the model tag SHOULD record the versions of the code, data and environment that were used to train the model.

### Environment variables
Starting with Version 1.1 Environment variables have been replaced with [OCI annotations](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/annotations.md) to ensure that an OMI compliant container always returns the same information when metadata is queried at rest and at runtime.


### Declares Openmodel Annotations

The container MUST have [OCI annotations](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/annotations.md) of the following form:

```
ml.openmodel.interfaces=["kfserving", "modzy"]
ml.openmodel.protocols=[["v1","v2"],["v2"]]
ml.openmodel.port="8080"
ml.openml.model_name="modelname"
```

Where `ml.openmodel.protocol` is list of lists such that the inner list's index corresponds to its interface index e.g. a model with the above configuration would support kfserving v1 and v2 protocols as well as the modzy interface with v2 protocol.

This is so that the serving system at runtime can determine whether it supports a given model without trying to run it so that it can give the user fast feedback.

### Ports

When started, the container image MUST listen on the TCP port given as the `ml.openmodel.port` annotation.
When a container starts listening on the prescribed port, it MUST adhere to the interface described below corresponding to its configuration.

### Interfaces and Protocols

The following interfaces are permitted in the spec:

* `kfserving`: Supports
  * [v1 REST API](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/README.md#data-plane-v1) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["kfserving"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v1" `
  * [v2 gRPC API](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/predict-api/v2) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["kfserving"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v2"`
* `modzy`: Supports 
  * [v1 REST API](https://docs.modzy.com/docs/container-specifications-rest) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["modzy"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v1" `
  * [v2 gRPC API](https://docs.modzy.com/docs/container-specifications-grpc) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["modzy"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v2" `

OMI compliant container images MUST implement at least the `kfserving.v2` or `modzy.v2` APIs.

The [Chassis](https://chassis.ml) reference implementation implements `kfserving.v1`, `kfserving.v2` and `modzy.v2`.

## Updates to this spec

If an OMI image declares or supports any strings other than the ones defined above, this document MUST be updated with the new interfaces (with links to their upstream protocol specifications), otherwise the container MUST NOT be described as Open Model Interface compliant.

This document can be updated via Pull Request on [GitHub](https://github.com/modzy/openmodelinterface/edit/main/docs/spec.md).
Contributions welcome!

Commit message:

Updated Process for PR updates by adding public comment period.

docs/spec.md, after:

# Open Model Interface Spec

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

## Changelog

| Date       | Version | Notes                                        |
|------------|---------|----------------------------------------------|
| 2021-07-26 | 1.0     | Initial version of OMI Spec                  |
| 2022-TBD   | 1.1     | Updated OMI Spec to include new requirements |

## Requirements

To qualify as an Open Model Interface (OMI) compliant container, a container must pass the following tests.

### OCI compliant

The container image MUST be an [OCI](https://opencontainers.org/) compliant container image, for example it MAY be generated by [`docker build`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/) or [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko).

### Origin tags

The container MUST be tagged (e.g. `tag` in `registry/org/image:tag`) with a unique ID which corresponds to the ID of the model in the upstream model management system.
For example, the container image tag MAY be set to the [MLflow Run ID](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/model-registry.html) which generated the model.

This is to enable provenance tracking from a given model which generated certain inference results to metadata about how the model was trained.
The metadata referred to by the model tag SHOULD record the versions of the code, data and environment that were used to train the model.

### Environment variables
Starting with Version 1.1 Environment variables have been replaced with [OCI annotations](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/annotations.md) to ensure that an OMI compliant container always returns the same information when metadata is queried at rest and at runtime.


### Declares Openmodel Annotations

The container MUST have [OCI annotations](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/annotations.md) of the following form:

```
ml.openmodel.interfaces=["kfserving", "modzy"]
ml.openmodel.protocols=[["v1","v2"],["v2"]]
ml.openmodel.port="8080"
ml.openml.model_name="modelname"
```

Where `ml.openmodel.protocol` is list of lists such that the inner list's index corresponds to its interface index e.g. a model with the above configuration would support kfserving v1 and v2 protocols as well as the modzy interface with v2 protocol.

This is so that the serving system at runtime can determine whether it supports a given model without trying to run it so that it can give the user fast feedback.

### Ports

When started, the container image MUST listen on the TCP port given as the `ml.openmodel.port` annotation.
When a container starts listening on the prescribed port, it MUST adhere to the interface described below corresponding to its configuration.

### Interfaces and Protocols

The following interfaces are permitted in the spec:

* `kfserving`: Supports
  * [v1 REST API](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/README.md#data-plane-v1) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["kfserving"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v1" `
  * [v2 gRPC API](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/predict-api/v2) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["kfserving"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v2"`
* `modzy`: Supports 
  * [v1 REST API](https://docs.modzy.com/docs/container-specifications-rest) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["modzy"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v1" `
  * [v2 gRPC API](https://docs.modzy.com/docs/container-specifications-grpc) with `ml.openmodel.interfaces=["modzy"] and ml.openmodel.protocols="v2" `

OMI compliant container images MUST implement at least the `kfserving.v2` or `modzy.v2` APIs.

The [Chassis](https://chassis.ml) reference implementation implements `kfserving.v1`, `kfserving.v2` and `modzy.v2`.

## Updates to this spec

If an OMI image declares or supports any strings other than the ones defined above, this document MUST be updated with the new interfaces (with links to their upstream protocol specifications), otherwise the container MUST NOT be described as Open Model Interface compliant.

This document can be updated via Pull Request on [GitHub](https://github.com/modzy/openmodelinterface/edit/main/docs/spec.md).

Any proposed PRs must be accompanied by a public comment period of no less than 2 weeks (14 days) before a merge can be approved.

Contributions welcome!
